JUDY WOODRUFF: The December jobs
numbers are
in, and they show employers were
in a hiring
mood. According to the
Department of Labor,
monthly surveys found that U.S.
businesses
added a net of more than 290,000
positions.
The unemployment rate was
unchanged, at 5
percent, as more people went
looking for work
and found it. We will hear from
the secretary
of labor, Thomas Perez, after
the news summary.
President Obama has vetoed a
Republican bill
that would have repealed the
Affordable Care
Act. He said today it would
reverse significant
progress in improving health
care. This was
the first such repeal measure to
reach the
Oval Office.
But, in a video statement, House
Speaker Paul
Ryan said it may not be the
last.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
We have shown now that there is
a clear path
to repealing Obamacare without
60 votes in
the Senate. So, next year, if
we're sending
this bill to a Republican
president, it will
get signed into law.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The bill had
enough votes in
the House to override a
presidential veto,
but not in the Senate.
The president also made moves
today on fighting
violent extremism. They include
a task force
to counter the use of social
media to radicalize
and recruit. Senior
administration officials
traveled to Silicon Valley today
to get the
tech industry's help.
An Islamic State affiliate in
Libya has claimed
responsibility for a deadly
truck bombing.
The explosion rocked a police
base outside
Tripoli on Thursday, as hundreds
of recruits
were training. At least 47
people were killed
and scores more were wounded.
Meanwhile, investigators in
Belgium say they
have discovered an apartment
where Islamic
State militants made bombs for
the Paris attacks
last November. A raid in
Brussels turned up
suicide belts and bomb-making
gear. The attacks
killed 130 people.
In Syria, relief agencies waited
today for
the green light to enter a town
that is literally
starving to death. The Syrian
government has
now agreed to let relief into
Madaya, in the
northwest, near the border with
Lebanon.
Geraint Vincent of Independent
Television
News filed this report.
And be advised: Some of the
images may be
disturbing.
GERAINT VINCENT: In the
desperate neighborhoods
of Madaya, the people are to be
found huddled
around their stoves. The old man
here takes
delivery of a small bag of olive
leaves.
"Can you not bring us some
rice?," he asks.
But the leaves are the nearest
thing to food
he will see today. There is at
least some
water to boil them in.
We can't independently verify
these pictures,
but at the hospital, the doctors
say the emergency
they are trying to cope with is
getting worse
and worse. This man hasn't eaten
for 25 days,
we're told, and he's one of
hundreds being
kept alive with medication and
spoonfuls of
food.
Laying siege to towns full of
civilians is
a tactic employed on both sides
of Syria's
war. It is forces loyal to
President Assad
which have cut off Madaya. His
government
says it will allow humanitarian
access. Aid
agencies hope to get food in
there by Sunday.
ABEER ETEFA, United Nations
World Food Program:
We know that when people are
besieged and
are cut off from supplies, that
the situation
will be bad. We know that there
will be high
rates of malnutrition, severe
malnutrition,
stunting among children, health
issues, diseases.
We know that usually the
children, the women,
the elderly will pay a heavy
price.
GERAINT VINCENT: Aid might get
through soon,
but the uncertainties of war
mean it might
not. The time is running out for
the people
of Madaya, and so is what passes
for food
here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Syrian
government wants
to wrest back control of Madaya
to secure
supply lines to its Hezbollah
militia allies
in Lebanon.
South Korea fired up its
loudspeakers today
near the demilitarized zone, and
blasted propaganda
into North Korea. The
high-decibel criticism
attacked the North Korean regime
and its leader,
Kim Jong-un. One message claimed
that Kim
and his wife wear clothing that
costs thousands
of dollars. Seoul resumed the
broadcasts after
the North carried out a nuclear
test.
And South Koreans near the DMZ
seemed supportive.
MAN (through translator): No
wonder the South
Korean government has started
the loudspeaker
broadcasts. We cannot tolerate
those who conduct
a nuclear test, which was a
violation, don't
you think? We should counteract
it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the past,
North Korea has
branded the broadcasts an act of
war. It responded
late today with propaganda
broadcasts of its
own.
Adolf Hitler's political
manifesto, "Mein
Kampf," went on sale in Germany
today for
the first time since World War
II, and demand
quickly outstripped supply. The
initial print
run was for 4,000 copies, but
15,000 orders
flooded the publisher. The
two-volume work
includes critical annotations
that debunk
the Nazi leader's claims.
ANDREAS WIRSCHING, Director,
Institute for
Contemporary History (through
translator):
This edition exposes the false
information
spread by Hitler, his downright
lies and his
many half-truths, which aimed at
a pure propaganda
effect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For decades, the
German state
of Bavaria used its copyright on
"Mein Kampf"
to block any new editions, but
the copyright
expired at the end of 2015.
Back in this country, police in
Philadelphia
say a man who ambushed and
wounded an officer
last night pledged loyalty to
the Islamic
State group. The suspect, Edward
Archer, is
in custody. His mother says he'd
been hearing
voices recently, and that his
family had urged
him to get help. Surveillance
video shows
the gunman firing more than a
dozen shots
at officer Jesse Hartnett, who
was sitting
in his cruiser. Hartnett shot
back and wounded
the attacker.
Reports of sexual assaults have
spiked at
U.S. military academies. The
Associated Press
reports they rose more than 50
percent during
just the past school year. It's
not clear
whether that's mostly because
assaults are
actually on the rise or whether
victims are
more willing to come forward.
Wall Street continues its slump
again today,
amid ongoing worries about
China's economy
and falling oil prices. The Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 167 points to close
below 16350.
The Nasdaq fell nearly 46, and
the S&P 500
slipped 21. For the week, the
Dow and the
S&P lost 6 percent, the worst
since 2011.
The Nasdaq fell 7 percent.
And, finally, a new world record
for mass
tooth brushing. More than 17,500
children
gathered in Bangalore, India,
yesterday to
highlight good oral hygiene.
That should easily
surpass the old mark for most
people brushing
their teeth in one place.
It makes you feel clean just
looking at them.